In this video, we'll dive deeper
into indexing in CrateDB,
beginning with what is indexed
and how.
I'll show you how the different
object column policies influence
the indexing of objects, and
we'll end with a quick look at
how to configure or even disable
indexing.
Let's start with the question
what's indexed by default in
CrateDB?
Well, everything is.
To ensure fast responses for any
type of query, CrateDB
automatically indexes every
attribute by default.
This is especially useful when
query patterns and use cases
evolve over time and may not
have been clear at the point at
which the data was ingested into
the database.
How does CrateDB achieve this?
Let's find out.
CrateDB leverages the powerful
search and indexing capabilities
of Apache Lucene.
Inverted indexes are used for
text values.
This facilitates efficient
search for precise text matches,
including support for wild card
and regular expressions.
Block-KD trees or BKD trees are
used for numeric, date, and
geospatial values.
These are highly efficient
indexes designed for optimal IO.
Hierarchical Navigable Small
World Graphs enable efficient
approximate nearest neighbour
search, commonly known as vector
similarity search.
Full-text indexes can be added to
enable features such as fuzzy
search, phrase search and
attribute boosting.
CrateDB offers multiple
languages, analysers and
tokenizers, plus the flexibility
to create custom analysers and
tokenizers. In conjunction with
advanced indexing strategies.
CrateDB uses a columnar storage
approach.
This facilitates fast queries
and complex aggregations across
large data sets.
How does this work?
Let's consider a simple example.
Imagine we have data about
products and quantities in stock
stored in a table such as the
one on the left.
If we want to search for a given
product term, for example
almond, we could go through the
table row by row to find
matches.
When storing the data, an
inverted index is created.
This index maps each term to the
IDs of the records that it
appears in.
This approach enables faster
queries as rather than going
through the entire table to look
for the term, the query engine
can refer to the inverted index
to get the IDs of matching
records directly.
The use of columnar storage to
store data for the same field
together optimises file system
cache utilisation and eliminates
the need to load unnecessary
data for fields not used in the
given query.
CrateDB segments this data into
blocks, storing it with
metadata.
That allows some queries to
entirely skip blocks that don't
contain matching values and
query data without decompressing
it first.
Objects offer a lot of
flexibility when modelling data
with CrateDB.
Let's take a moment to learn how
they are indexed.
Here's a CREATE TABLE statement for
a table that models the details
of Chicago's taxi fleet.
Recall that CrateDB has three
different object schema
policies.
When using DYNAMIC, the default
policy, CrateDB creates a schema
for the object based on the data
inserted into it.
Here we're storing an object
containing 2 TEXT values in the
operator field.
CrateDB indexes dynamic objects,
so both name and affiliation are
indexed.
The details object has a STRICT
schema definition.
Objects inserted here must match
the declared schema.
Everything inside this object is
indexed too.
Finally, an object using the
IGNORED policy can have any
structure.
Only fields specified in the
schema are indexed in this case.
So we see that emissions and
seat belt check are not indexed.
This video provided an overview
of indexing in CrateDB.
CrateDB ensures fast responses
to all types of query by
indexing everything by default.
Full-text and vector similarity
search are also possible.
These topics are covered in
other videos.